- [Instructor] Now let's go further
on the topic of message channels.
Let's have a look at the channel
as an enterprise integration pattern,
then we'll return to spring integration
and end the lesson with the code implementation.
As we have learned, a subscribable model
allows a consumer to listen for interesting events
by subscription.
It is sometimes referred to as an event driven
or broadcast model of communication.
The sibling, the pollable model,
requires a consumer to explicitly ask
for the latest messages.
A queue is not a communication model
but rather a data structure that stores messages
for retrieval in a specific predetermined order.
Let's talk for a minute about channels theoretically,
in the context of enterprise integration patterns.
The best way I know how to do this,
is to read a direct quote from the publication itself.
A messaging system manages messaging
the way a database system manages data persistence.
Just as an administrator must populate the database
with the schema for an applications data,
that administrator must configure the messaging system
with the channels that define the paths of communication,
between the application components.
The implication of this statement
is that channels themselves have not only the capacity,
but also the responsibility to influence the behavior
of the application as a whole.
You will often hear channels compared to plumbing pipes,
or post office boxes or other things.
Every comparison has its advantages.
I like the comparison to streets in a well-organized town.
There is a small set really of behaviors you can do
or not do on a street.
You can modulate your speed,
travel only in certain directions,
give priority to traffic on other streets,
perhaps not walk or not drive.
And these options, though simple and few,
have a big collective impact
on the quality of life in a town,
depending on how they're applied and combined.
In the same way, channels have just a few options
for configuration.
Must our message transmission be subscribable or pollable?
Must it be able to queue messages?
Must it be friendly to asynchronous conditions?
Are there logical transactional boundaries
that we need to manage?
You can see how, each of these conditions
alone is straightforward,
matrix as a connected system,
they have a big impact on the livability.
That is to say the scalability,
you can see how, though each of these conditions alone
is straightforward, matrix as a connected system
they have a big impact on the livability,
that is to say the scalability, reliability,
and portability of an application.
These four architectural characteristics,
inform the class implementations in the package
org.springframework.integration.channel.
Though we do not have time to discuss all of these
in detail, it is useful to get a feel
for the options that are available to you.
DirectChannel, PublishedSubscribedChannel,
and FixedSubscriberChannel, all implement the subscriber
that is the event driven, reactive model of communication.
They differ in the number of subscribers
that they can service,
and in their transactional capabilities.
We coded an example of a DirectChannel,
and we're going to look at a PublishSubscribeChannel
in the next lesson.
QueueChannel, PriorityChannel, RendezvousChannel
and ExecutorChannel are all pollable implementations.
They support varying capabilities around queuing,
message recipients, transactional boundaries
and asynchronicity.
We will code a QueueChannel in a future lesson.
Finally, the FluxChannel bakes and support
for Java's reactive streams library.
Now that we've taken a bird's-eye view
of these very useful channel classes,
let's jump back into our code work
and build a pollable QueueChannel.
As before let's start by focusing our files
on the current lesson code
which would be get checkout 02 underscore 03 B.
What we want to do here is provide a way
for our tech support service to monitor
and then notify the user when a software update is required.
A pollable model we'll let our application process
post notifications at will
and as we have the resources available.
Since polling is an ask for the latest news type of model
instead of an event reaction type of model.
Having said that as before, let's start
with our declaration.
Here in tech support XML,
META-INF spring integration, tech support XML.
Now configuring this channel
is going to look very much like
our direct channel that we configured in the last lesson
up in line 14.
We're going to use the same element
from the INF namespace, that is channel,
give it an ID of let's say update notification QueueChannel
but there's one important difference
with the direct channel that we configured in line 14.
And that will be the addition of property called queue.
That's what makes this a pollable QueueChannel.
We're going to supply one attribute value
we're going to give our queue a capacity of five
meaning it can hold no more than five messages at a time.
So with that done, let's go use this channel
starting with the tech support service.
Tech support services designed to send notifications
into our pollable channel queue.
Like before we're getting a handle
on our channel inside our service,
it's going to look like this pollable channel.
We're getting a reference to our channel
by looking into the spring configuration.
And in order to do that, we need the name of our bean
which we named let's copy and paste this to be error free.
That should do the trick, cast it to a pollable channel.
And then all we need to do is down here
in our check currency version, send a message.
We've done this before to recall that send requires
at least one parameter of a message.
Like before we're going to use
our message builder utility class.
We'll use it with payload option
instead of having a domain specific payload here
a nice shortcut is that we can just give it a string.
Let's say application update required.
And one final thing here, we'll build our message
that creates the message that we're looking for
and we're going to add to the send method, a timeout.
This means that if the queue is at capacity
the sender will not block waiting for capacity.
If it can't receive it, it will drop the message and go on.
That's what we want in our particular case.
So now we've got a handle on our pollable channel
and we're sending a message and all that remains
for us to prove this out is to go into review service
and sort of do the same thing in reverse
except for that we are receiving a message here.
Here in our view service
in our check for notifications method,
we're going to receive a method
that means we're going to pull the channel for notifications.
The methods we have available to us here.
What we want to take is this receive with a timeout
because we don't want to block
if there's nothing to receive.
The receive method of update notification channel
will give us an instance of a message
and we want to capture, that import that,
and then what we're going to do
is if the messages is at null,
we're going to update the view with a notice to the user
that they need to update their software.
And the way we do that
is we're going to use the message we just created.
We're going to get the payload, put that out as a string.
And then that will go to the user interface
telling the user that they need to get new software.
One thing to note here
is that since we timed out our receive
on a thousand, which is equivalent of one second,
this message might end up being null.
And that's why this message check to see if it's,
if we actually have a message is very important.
So let's run our application now
and see if it compiles, runs
and gives us what we're thinking we're going to see.
That looks pretty good
let's go out to our browser.
And as you saw, we got a notice here in the browser
saying that an application update is required
and that's what we were looking to see.
We've now configured our second channel
and asynchronous QueueChannel
that uses a pollable model of communication.